high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC), deleterious mutations in DNA repair gene RAD51C 
are established drivers of defective homologous recombination and are emerging biomarkers of 
PARP inhibitor (PARPi) sensitivity. RAD51C promoter methylation (meRAD51C) is detected at 
similar frequencies to mutations, yet its effects on PARPi responses remain unresolved. 
In this study, three HGSC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models with methylation at most 
or all examined CpG sites in the RAD51C promoter show responses to PARPi. Both complete 
and heterogeneous methylation patterns were associated with RAD51C gene silencing and homologous 
recombination deficiency (HRD). PDX models lost meRAD51C following treatment with PARPi rucaparib 
or niraparib, where a single unmethylated copy of RAD51C was sufficient to drive PARPi resistance. 
Genomic copy number profiling of one of the PDX models using SNP arrays revealed that this resistance 
was acquired independently in two genetically distinct lineages. Lindsey.Torre@cancer.
There are limited published data on recent cancer incidence and mortality trends 
worldwide. We used the International Agency for Research on Cancer's CANCERMondial 
clearinghouse to present age-standardized cancer incidence and death rates for @2003-2007@. 
We also present trends in incidence through 2007 and mortality through 2012 for select countries 
from five continents. High-income countries (HIC) continue to have the highest incidence rates 
for all sites, as well as for lung, colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer, although some low- and 
middle-income countries (LMIC) now count among those with the highest rates. Mortality rates from 
these cancers are declining in many HICs while they are increasing in LMICs. LMICs have the highest 
rates of stomach, liver, esophageal, and cervical cancer. Although rates remain high in HICs, they 
are plateauing or decreasing for the most common cancers due to decreases in known risk factors, 
screening and early detection, and improved treatment (mortality only). In contrast, rates in 
several LMICs are increasing for these cancers due to increases in smoking, excess body weight, 
and physical inactivity. LMICs also have a disproportionate burden of infection-related cancers. 
Applied cancer control measures are needed to reduce rates in HICs and arrest the growing burden in LMICs. 
American Cancer Society Surveillance and Health Services Research, Atlanta, Georgia. Lindsey.Torre@cancer.org.
American Cancer Society Surveillance and Health Services Research, Atlanta, Georgia.
American Cancer Society Intramural Research, Atlanta, Georgia.
04:30pm D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, TX 77030-4009, USA. slippman@mdanderson.org
The rich, multidisciplinary history of cancer prevention recounted here begins with surgical and workplace 
recommendations of the 1700s and ends with 2009 results of the enormous (35,535 men) Selenium and Vitamin 
E [prostate] Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT)! This history comprises a fascinating array of chemopreventive, 
vaccine, surgical, and behavioral science research, both preclinical and clinical. Preclinical milestones of 
cancer prevention include the 1913 and 1916 mouse studies by Lathrop and Loeb of cancer development associated 
with pregnancy or cancer prevention through castration (oophorectomy), preventing chemically induced 04:30 pm mouse 
carcinogenesis as early as 1929, energy restriction studies in the 1940s, the 1950s discoveries and later 
molecular characterizations of field cancerization and multistep carcinogenesis, and the effects of angiogenesis 
inhibition in genetically engineered mice reported in 2009! The extraordinary panoply of clinical research 
includes numerous large 002:14pmi and smaller chemoprevention studies of nutritional supplements, other dietary approaches, 
a Bacillus Calmette-Guérin trial in 1976, molecular-targeted agents, and agents to prevent infection-related cancers 
such as hepatitis B virus vaccine to prevent liver cancer in 1984. Clinical surgical prevention includes removal 
of intraepithelial neoplasia detected by screening (including Pap testing developed in 1929 and culposcopy for 
cervical premalignancy and colonoscopy and polypectomy to prevent colorectal cancer begun in the 1960s) and 
prophylactic surgeries, such as in Lynch syndrome patients begun in 1977. Behavioral studies include smoking 
cessation and control beginning in the 1950s, obesity control rooted in studies of 1841, and genetic-counseling 
and cancer-survivorship studies. This history of pioneering events may help in better understanding who we are 
and what we want to achieve as cancer prevention researchers and practitioners. 
The temporal dynamics of cancer evolution remain elusive, because it is impractical to longitudinally observe 
cancers unperturbed by treatment. Consequently, our knowledge of how cancers grow largely derives from 
inferences made from a single point in time - the endpoint in the cancer's evolution, (5:14am ) when it is 
removed from the body and studied in the laboratory. Fortuitously however, the cancer genome, 
by virtue of ongoing mutations that uniquely mark clonal lineages within the tumour, provides 
a rich, yet surreptitious, record of cancer development (2:31). In this review, we describe how a cancer's 
genome can be analysed to reveal the temporal history of mutation and selection, and discuss why 
both selective and neutral evolution feature prominently in carcinogenesis. We argue that 
selection in cancer can only be properly studied once we have some understanding of what the 
absence of selection looks like. We review the data describing punctuated evolution in cancer, 
and reason that punctuated phenotype evolution is consistent with both gradual and punctuated 
genome evolution. We conclude that, to map and predict evolutionary trajectories during carcinogenesis, 
it is critical to better understand the relationship between genotype change and phenotype change. 
